% AMBIG_rune
A rune, a symbol of authority for the master of this particular place. You can
steal it out of spite if you want.

% knife
Typically used for cutting rope and making holes in cloth, this knife will make
holes in wardens and guards just fine. Hopefully you'll find a better weapon
before long.

% dagger
An medium-sized double-edged knife, useful for stabbing foes.

% stiletto
A long dagger, ending in a razor-sharp point but with rather dull edges. It
works very well for stabbing unaware enemies.

% rapier
A very long needle-like dagger, ending in an incredibly sharp edge, but with
blunt edges. Its general design, especially the handle, is uncommonly elegant.

% mine
It will activate when a non-player monster steps on it, but it may not explode
immediately.

It will create an explosion with a radius of about 3 tiles.

% recharging_station
You can activate this to recharge some of your evocables.

% barrel_water
You can break open this barrel to make a puddle of water. If you lure foes into
the water, they will be vulnerable to electricity.

% evoc_flamethrower
This device can spray a fountain of sparks at a nearby tile, igniting it.

% eldritch_lantern
A very strange device, found in abundance in this place when the hill-goblins
overran it. What use the cave-goblins might have had for it is a mystery.

When evoked, it will create a powerful flash of light, dazing all mobs in your
field of vision for 8 turns. It will daze you as well, hopefully not for very
long.

% kit_mine
You can evoke it to build a small mine where you are standing.

% kit_trap_emberling
Creates an emberling trap, which releases a pack of allied emberlings when
triggered.

% kit_trap_sparkling
Creates a sparkling trap, which releases a pack of allied sparkling when
triggered. Be careful: the sparklings are not mindful of what they may
electrocute.

% torturer_necromancer
A particularly sadistic death mage. His features are perpetually twisted into a
leer of cruel contempt.

% potion_debilitate
Releases a cloud of vile-smelling gas, causing minor seizures in victims and
severely impeding effective combat.

% potion_smoke
Releases a cloud of smoke. Useful for obscuring vision.

% potion_confusion
Confuses the heck out of you, preventing you from moving in diagonal directions.
You can still attack diagonally though.

% potion_paralysis
Releases paralysing gas.

% potion_fast
Makes you faster. This potion cannot be thrown.

% potion_recuperate
Heals you over a period of time, but reduces your armor as well for that
duration.

% potion_poison
Induces poisoning, both damaging and slowing the victim.

% potion_invigorate
Gives a strength and evasion bonus for a period of time.

% potion_incinerate
This will set you and your surroundings on fire in a 8-tile radius.

% potion_decimate
Creates a nasty explosion in a 3-tile radius, pulverising anyone caught in it.

% t_default

% t_carpet
Ornate, cushioned carpet. Your steps make almost no noise while walking on this.

% t_gravel
Very noisy to walk on.

% t_metal
Metal plates have been bolted onto the floor for some reason.

% t_copper
Copper plates have been bolted onto the floor for some reason. While standing on
this, you share electricity damage with nearby monsters.

% t_wood
Wooden boards. Creaky and flammable, but makes you resistant to electricity.

% t_water
Someone spilled a lot of water here. It's difficult to sneak through, and will
make you very vulnerable to electricity. You are very resistant to fire though.

% t_f_lumi
Some kind of bluish fungi, glowing serenely in the dim light of the Dungeon.

% t_f_dead
Some dry, flammable fungi.

% t_f_tall
A strange kind of very tall mushroom growth. Easy to hide in.

% t_pillar
A pillar.

% t_platform
A raised platform.

% executioner
One of the many Dungeon executioners. It wields a giant spiked flail that,
luckily, is good for little else besides its gruesome profession.

% destroyer
A heavily-armored and highly trained executioner.

% watcher
Despite unusually acute senses that enable its ceaseless vigilance, not to
mention the fact that it has no need of sleep, this imp is universally despised
by its comrades. Some even hold that it is the work of an evil wizard, a
cross-breed between the ugliest of humans and goblins.

% warden
The Dungeon warden. It will call for help with its warning horn if it spots you.

% guard
An ordinary hill-goblin guard, with a crude mace and some light armor. Not much
to say about it. You can't help but wonder if a glaive would suit it better.

% defender
A lone guard, standing motionless in the stagnant air of the Dungeon.

% javelineer
A warrior clad in light armor, able to throw poisoned javelins with surprising
accuracy.

% sentinel
A highly-trained guard.

% lead_turtle
A monstrous contraption, no doubt the latest invention of the Laboratory
alchemists. Its heavy shell shines dully in the dim light.

% iron_wasp
A tiny buzzing insect, seemingly forged out of thin metal sheets. It's almost as
if its four wings are mounted on its back instead of its sides...

% patrol
Ah, finally, a guard who has the sense to carry a polearm.

% player
Always remember that you are completely unique. Just like everyone else.

% goblin
One of the last few prisoners of war, captured at last at the end of the battle
in which the hill-goblins overran this stronghold. It sits here, nursing its
wounds and waiting miserably until its execution.

For some reason, its captors haven't bothered to take its mace and armor away...

% convult
A foul apprentice mage, specializing in the manipulation of emotions. His craft,
however, has caused him to lose control over his own, and now his features
writhe and contort with irrepressible hatred.

% vapour_mage
Wow, he really does look weak on his own.

% dustling
A humanoid construct created by a minor sorcerer. It seems to be more or less
harmless...

% cinder_worm
An ancient demon, incarnate as a writhing mass of molten granite.

% war_olg
Also known as the plains-troll to the swarthy men, the olg is a naturally
peaceful grazing animal, equipped with three pairs of legs and a protective coat
of shaggy fur. It makes a competent fighter when trained for war, however.

% mellaent
An annoying species of underground bat, shimmering conspicuously in the
darkness.

% kyanite_statue
This statue makes you uncomfortable. You somehow want to hide from it.

% nebro_statue
The eyes of this statue seem to glimmer with an unearthly radiance.

% crystal_statue
A statue of some nameless creature, the iridescent crystals encrusted on it
shimmering horribly. You wish you could smash it into pieces.

% alchemist
A learned goblin alchemist. It delights in breeding horrible creatures and
creating evil inventions. Somehow it doesn't care about you.

% cleaner
This slave is tasked with keeping the floor of the Dungeon spotless.

% hauler
A very ordinary Dungeon slave, doing very ordinary hauling work.

% engineer
It is carrying a trowel and some mortar.

% ancient_mage
Even the most powerful of human mages cannot hope to wield the full might of the
Necromancer. Instead, it is invested in this undead mage, an immeasurably
ancient skeleton resurrected for that purpose.

% spark_mage
An arrogant goblin mage with thick spectacles. He has been tasked with leading a
band of sparklings, and can create more from a fallen friend's corpse.

% lightning_mage
One of the feared Lightning Mages, wielding unparalleled power over the
atmosphere. She can call on the surrounding air to discharge a powerful
lightning bolt into unsuspecting foes.

% sparkling
An insubstantial construct. It's trying to electrocute you!

% ember_mage
A rather stocky fellow, wearing a maroon tunic. He is tasked with leading a band
of emberlings, and has been given the power to create more from a fallen
friend's corpse.

% brimstone_mage
This unassuming human is one of the dreaded Brimstone Mages, learned in the ways
of fiery sorcerery. The ornate lettering on her armor testifies to the power she
has been allowed to wield.

% emberling
A construct of smoldering ash, imbued with false life and commanded by a
human sorcerer.

% death_mage
A human mage, specializing in the manipulations of undead skeletons.

% skeletal_blademaster
An ancient skeleton, cloaked in white robes, with golden chains and bracelets
dangling from its mouldering limbs. Underneath its hood you can catch the
glimpse of a silver crown.

% skeletal_axemaster
A vicious and surprisingly durable skeleton, decked in royal robes and armed to
the teeth. It was created for the purpose of testing the efficiency of war axes
in battle. Battles are slow in coming, however, so you'll just have to do for
now...

% necromancer
An unusually sadistic death mage, tasked with making the prisoner's lives as
miserable as possible. His features are perpetually twisted into a leer of cruel
contempt.

% burning_brute
A raging winged demon composed of boiling basalt, feared even by its peers for
its vicious fire attacks.

% sulfur_fiend
A writhing mass of golden sulfur. It has supreme power over electricity.

% frozen_fiend
A winged humanoid, clothed in watery-blue robes. It whispers grimly to itself as
it patrols the dungeon, inspecting its underlings with an expression of cold
contempt.

% living_ice
A mass of ice, imbued with sapience by a nearby demon. It will revert back to
being a wall in a little bit.

% ball_lightning
A sphere of pure electricity, encased in a shell of burning sulfur. It will seek
out nearby conductive creatures, hostile or not, before exploding in a blast of
fire and lightning.

% sp_hasten_undead
Hasten a nearby undead ally, making them twice as fast.

% sp_heal_undead
Use a nearby corpse to heal a nearby undead ally by a significant amount.

% sp_fireblast
Vomit fire, engulfing the surrounding area in blazing flames.

% electrocution
An ancient talisman, created to enhance the fighting prowess of the
Necromancer's warriors.


$cPattern:$. Attack in a cardinal direction, move opposite, move perpendicular,
attack again.


$G    $rm$G...          ....   ....

$G    $.@$G... $.<attack>$G $rm$G...   $rm$G... $.<attack>$G

$G    ....          $.@$G...   .$.@$G..


$cEffect:$. Mobs in your four corners will be electrocuted.

% extermination
An ancient talisman, created to enhance the fighting prowess of the
Necromancer's warriors.


$cPattern:$. Move forward against foe, move left or right, move forward.


$G    ....   ....   ....   ....

$G    $.@$G.$rm$G.   .$.@$G$rm$G.   ..$rm$G.   ..$rm$G.

$G    ....   ....   .$.@$G..   ..$.@$G.


$cEffect:$. A bolt of fire will be hurled in the direction you last attacked.

% cremation
An ancient talisman, created to enhance the fighting prowess of the
Necromancer's warriors.


$cPattern:$. Attack foe, then move all around foe in four turns (without
attacking or resting).


$G    .....            .....   .....   ..$.@$G..

$G    ..$rm$G$.@$G.  $.<attack>$G  ..$rm$G..   .$.@$G$rm$G..   ..$rm$G..

$G    .....            ..$.@$G..   .....   .....


$cEffect:$. Makes all adjacent foes temporarily vulnerable to fire, and creates
a ring of flames in all adjacent squares.
